Strengths and Weaknesses

From the frontend frameworks like Angular, React, and Flask we decided to choose the React Framework since it has tremendous support from the worldwide communities, and it also gives excellent cross-platform support. React JS is a mostly used open-source JavaScript Library where we can develop spectacular web applications that need minimum effort and coding. React JS gives many advantages for developers, some of them are easy to learn and use, easy to create dynamic web applications, reusability of the components, improve the performance, and help for testing and debugging the codes. It has a main weakness of React JS is poor documentation. [1] 
The Best Backend frameworks in 2022 are Spring Frameworks +Spring boot for Java Developers, Django for Python Developers, Django for Python Developers, Express JS for JavaScript Developers, ASP NET core .NET developers, Laravel for PHP programmers. From these frameworks, we chose to use Express JS as the backend framework for our development [2], since it allows us to define routes of the application by using the HTTP methods and URLs. Express JS makes it fast and easy to develop, configure and customize Node JS web applications and it is easy to integrate with different template engines, it helps to perform additional tasks by including several middleware modules for the request and response and it simply to connects with databases [3]. 
There are some minor weaknesses such as retrieving data from files or databases, which will consume time and the average server will block other all requests until the data is delivered. [4],loss of manual labour. [5]

To develop the recommender system, we plan to use the Django framework since it is an open-source web framework developed using the python programming language which helps to develop algorithms easily. There are inbuilt math functions that help to do calculations more efficiently and easily. It contains libraries like PyTorch and NumPy which are compatible with powerful machine learning. Django has statistical capabilities that make a unique platform for machine learning applications and provide prediction capabilities and enables application development intelligence. There are a few disadvantages as well, some of them are it cannot handle multiple requests concurrently. [6]
As the database, we choose to use MongoDB since it is a cloud-based application that helps us to access our database from any place in the world. It is easy to manage data since it creates different clusters with relevant queries which makes the database flexible to use. Mongo DB is a user-friendly database, and it has a great capacity for querying and analyzing data. [7].There are a few cons as well, some of them are High Memory usage, Limited Data Size and Nesting Documents. [8]

