Vendors 
Healthcare providers often work with vendors without assessing the accompanying risk. For 
example, if a hospital hires a cleaning company, its employees might gain access to computers. 
While patient information should be locked in ways that the average employee cannot view, it 
can be difficult to safeguard all points of access since cleaning Vulnerabilities 2 and maintenance 
are integral to maintaining a healthy work environment. Unsecured mobile devices: Healthcare 
facilities that allow mobile logins don’t always require the devices to meet security standards. 
This leaves their networks vulnerable to malware and hackers since all of the organization’s 
planning and security do not influence staff communication devices. This issue is compounded 
once staff disposes of the equipment in an upgrade — network information or passwords might 
still be accessible, making a natural access point for criminals. Unless the organization sets strict 
guidelines or bans user devices altogether, there is little that employers can do
Lost and stolen mobile devices
In much the same way, lost or stolen devices represent an enormous risk. Any mobile device 
used to access a facility’s network becomes a liability as soon as it is lost or stolen. Once it falls 
into the wrong hands, the user can easily access the system using old or stored login data. Once a 
criminal has access to the network, it can be challenging to detect their presence or reseal the 
breach. Online medical devices: The security of online medical devices is often lacking, making 
them easy targets for hackers. There was a time that tools such as infusion pumps only provided 
information to the doctor and patient involved. However, as the Internet of Medical Things 
(IoMT) continues to grow, these devices are designed to export the information to external 
sources and otherwise interact with the world outside the doctor’s office. This data could be 
intercepted or manipulated, creating a host of issues. Moreover, hackers could gain access to 
manage most items connected to the network, including how the machines function